[page 1]
T-DEED: Temporal-Discriminability Enhancer Encoder-Decoder for Precise Event Spotting in Sports Videos Artur Xarles1,2 Sergio Escalera1,2,3 Thomas B.
Moeslund3 Albert Clap´es1,2 1Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain 2Computer Vision Center, Cerdanyola del Vall`es, Spain 3Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark arturxe@gmail.com, sescalera@ub.edu, tbm@create.aau.dk, aclapes@ub.edu Abstract In this paper, we introduce T-DEED, a Temporal- Discriminability Enhancer Encoder-Decoder for Precise Event Spotting in sports videos.
T-DEED addresses mul- tiple challenges in the task, including the need for discrim- inability among frame representations, high output tempo- ral resolution to maintain prediction precision, and the ne- cessity to capture information at different temporal scales to handle events with varying dynamics.
It tackles these challenges through its specifically designed architecture, featuring an encoder-decoder for leveraging multiple tem- poral scales and achieving high output temporal resolu- tion, along with temporal modules designed to increase to- ken discriminability.
Leveraging these characteristics, T- DEED achieves SOTA performance on the FigureSkating and FineDiving datasets.
Code is available at https: //github.com/arturxe2/T-DEED. 1.
Introduction In recent years, remarkable progress has been made in the field of video understanding, largely driven by advance- ments in deep learning and increased computational power.
These developments have enabled researchers to move be- yond simpler tasks like action recognition [18] in trimmed videos to more complex challenges such as accurate local- ization of actions within untrimmed videos.
Among these tasks, we find Temporal Action Localization (TAL), which represents actions as temporal intervals, and Action Spot- ting (AS), which uses single keyframes to represent them.
While TAL [37] has historically received more attention, AS has recently experienced an increase in research inter- est, particularly in domains such as sports, as fast-paced ac- tions – common in sports videos – can be better represented by single temporal positions rather than intervals of time.
Additionally, Hong et al.
[20] extended AS to Precise Event Spotting (PES), distinguishing events from actions and em- ploying tighter tolerances for evaluation.
This paper specifically focuses on the task of Precise Event Spotting in sports (illustrated in Figure 1), evaluated on FigureSkating [19] and FineDiving [38], two common sports datasets.
Following Hong et al.
[20], we use tight tolerances to accommodate the fast-paced nature of sport- ing events, where even a minor temporal deviation of 1-2 frames can lead to missed events.
Three main challenges faced by methods addressing this task include: (1) the need for discriminative per-frame representations to differentiate between adjacent frames with high spatial similarity, (2) the necessity of high output temporal resolution to avoid losing prediction precision, and (3) the variability in the amount of temporal context required for different events, influenced by dataset characteristics and event dynamics.
To tackle these challenges we introduce T-DEED, a Temporal-Discriminability Enhancer Encoder-Decoder for PES in sports videos.
Introducing skip connections within its encoder-decoder architecture, T-DEED operates across various temporal scales, capturing actions requiring di- verse temporal contexts, while restoring the original tem- poral resolution, thereby addressing challenges (2) and (3).
Additionally, it integrates Scalable-Granularity Perception (SGP) [31] based layers to increase discriminability among features within the same temporal sequence, tackling chal- lenge (1).
To summarize, our main contributions are: 1.
We incorporate residual connections into the SGP layer, enabling the integration of features from multiple tem- poral scales within the skip connections of our encoder- decoder architecture.
This results in the creation of the SGP-Mixer layer, addressing challenge (3). 2.
We introduce the SGP-Mixer module within the SGP- Mixer layer, which adapts the SGP module to aggregate information from different temporal scales.
This mod- ule shares the core principles of SGP to enhance token discriminability while modeling temporal information, therefore tackling challenge (1). arXiv:2404.05392v2  [cs.CV]  11 Apr 2024

[page 2]
Figure 1.
Illustration of the Precise Event Spotting task on the FigureSkating dataset.
Red-marked frames contain events that require precise localization and correct classification among possible classes. 3.
We conduct extensive ablations of T-DEED components, highlighting the advantages of the encoder-decoder ar- chitecture with SGP-based layers to enhance token dis- criminability.
Additionally, T-DEED achieves state-of- the-art performance.
Specifically, on FigureSkating, it improves mean Average Precision (mAP) by +1.15 for the FS-Comp split and +3.07 for the FS-Perf split.
Sim- ilarly, on the FineDiving dataset, T-DEED achieves an improvement of +4.83 mAP. 2.
Related work Over the past decade, deep learning has driven the field of video understanding through a remarkable evolution.
Ini- tially focused on simple tasks like classifying short-trimmed videos [1, 6, 16], the field has transitioned to more complex challenges, including Temporal Action Localization (TAL) and Action Spotting (AS).
Both TAL and AS focus on tem- porally locating specific actions within untrimmed videos.
TAL specifies temporal intervals for annotations, while AS represents actions with single keyframes, making TAL suit- able for prolonged actions and AS more appropriate for fast- occurring actions, with the added benefit of reduced anno- tation costs.
Furthermore, Hong et al.
[20] extended the AS task to Precise Event Spotting (PES), introducing a key difference in the required precision of predictions, limited to only a few frames, and distinguishing between actions and events.
In the sports domain, AS and PES are particu- larly popular as they adapt better to its fast nature, leading to the development of many approaches [8, 11, 15, 20, 32, 36] across different sports, including football [10, 14], figure skating [19], diving [38], gymnastics [30], and tennis [45].
Given the inherent similarities between TAL and AS, the methodologies developed for these tasks frequently share common components.
However, TAL methods have at- tracted more attention due to the earlier introduction of the task and a more extensive set of benchmarking datasets [5, 9, 22, 42, 46], placing them a step ahead of AS methods.
In contrast, AS methods have been tailored for specific datasets and competitive challenges, exemplified by their development in challenges like SoccerNet Action Spotting and SoccerNet Ball Action Spotting [8, 15].
Notably, E2E- Spot [20] stands out as the only action or event spotting method evaluated across multiple datasets.
Temporal Action Localization.
In TAL methods, a com- mon classification divides them into two groups: two- stage methods [3, 13, 17, 28, 39] and one-stage meth- ods [23, 25, 31, 41, 43].
Two-stage methods generate class- agnostic proposals that are later classified into action la- bels or background, while one-stage models directly local- ize and classify actions in a single step, offering simplic- ity and achieving state-of-the-art performance in many TAL and AS scenarios.
Among one-stage methods, early approaches [4, 24] uti- lized anchor windows to generate action predictions.
Later, Yang et al.
[40] introduced an anchor-free approach, rely- ing on temporal points instead of anchor windows, high- lighting the advantages of both techniques.
Building on this approach, current state-of-the-art methods such as Ac- tionFormer [43] and TriDet [31] have exhibited remarkable performance across various datasets.
They leverage a fea- ture pyramid network to process features at different tem- poral scales, a critical aspect for identifying actions that re- quire distinct temporal contexts.
The main difference lies in their prediction head and the layers used for feature pro- cessing.
ActionFormer employs transformer layers, later re- vealed to suffer from the rank loss problem [12], negatively impacting token discriminability.
To alleviate this prob- lem, TriDet proposes a more efficient convolutional-based Scalable-Granularity Perception (SGP) layer, specially de- signed to increase token discriminability within the same temporal sequence, contributing to an improved overall per- formance.
T-DEED, inspired by TAL trends, focuses on enhancing token discriminability while leveraging multiple temporal scales, with modifications tailored to meet the pre- cision requirements of PES.
Action Spotting.
In AS, techniques similar to those in TAL have demonstrated state-of-the-art performance on the Soc- cerNet challenges [8, 15].
Many methods [11, 32, 36] clas- sify temporal points as either background or actions and refine them through temporal regression using either con- volutional [32] or Transformer-based [11, 36] approaches.
In contrast, Hong et al.
[20] propose a simple end-to-end solution that employs a convolutional backbone with Gate- Shift Modules (GSM) [33] for extracting per-frame features with short-term temporal information, followed by a Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) [7] layer for long-term temporal in-

[page 3]
Figure 2.
Illustration of T-DEED architecture comprising three key components: (1) Feature extractor to produce per-frame represen- tations, (2) Temporally discriminant encoder-decoder to capture local and global temporal information while enhancing token discrim- inability, and (3) Prediction head to generate per-frame classifications and displacements for refinement. formation.
This approach proves effective in their proposed task of PES across four different datasets [19, 30, 38, 45], and is also adaptable to the coarser AS task in SoccerNet.
While many TAL and AS methods [31, 32, 36, 43] rely on pre-extracted features due to their efficiency in train- ing, end-to-end approaches have demonstrated that they can be beneficial in learning more meaningful features in some cases.
This is exemplified by Hong et al.
[20], particularly in scenarios where precise predictions are essential, such as in the case of PES.
Exploiting these advantages, T-DEED also adopts an end-to-end approach. 3.
Method Problem definition.
Precise Event Spotting (PES) in- volves the identification and localization of actions within an untrimmed video X, as illustrated in Figure 1.
Given the video input, the objective is to recognize and locate all the events occurring in the video, represented as E = {e1, . . . , eN}.
The number of events, denoted as N, may vary across different videos.
Each event instance ei com- prises an action class ci ∈{1, . . . , C} (where C is the num- ber of distinct event classes) and its corresponding temporal position ti (i.e. the exact frame where it occurs), forming a pair ei = (ci, ti).
Method overview.
Our model, Temporal- Discriminability Enhancer Encoder-Decoder (T-DEED), is designed to increase token discriminability for Precise Event Spotting (PES) while leveraging multiple temporal scales.
As illustrated in Figure 2, T-DEED comprises three main blocks: a feature extractor, a temporally discriminant encoder-decoder, and a prediction head.
We process videos through fixed-length clips, each containing L densely sampled frames.
The feature extractor, composed of a 2D backbone with Gate-Shift-Fuse (GSF) modules [34], handles the input frames, generating per-frame representa- tions of dimension d, hereby referred to as tokens.
These tokens undergo further refinement within the temporally discriminant encoder-decoder.
This module employs SGP layers which – as shown by Shi et al.
[31] – diminish token similarity, thereby boosting discriminability across tokens of the same sequence.
The encoder-decoder architecture allows the processing of features across diverse temporal scales, helpful for detecting events requiring different amounts of temporal context.
We also integrate skip con- nections to preserve the fine-grained information from the initial layers.
To effectively merge information proceeding from varying temporal scales in the skip connections, we introduce the SGP-Mixer layer, detailed in Section 3.2.
This layer employs the same principles as the SGP layer to enhance token discriminability while gathering infor- mation from varying range temporal windows.
Finally, the output tokens are directed to the prediction head, resembling those commonly used in Action Spotting (AS) literature [11, 32, 36].
It encompasses a classification component to identify whether an event occurs at the given temporal position or in close proximity (within a radius of rE frames).
Additionally, for the positive classifications, a displacement component pinpoints the exact temporal position of ground truth events.
Further details of the proposed method are discussed in the following sections.

[page 4]
3.1.
Feature extractor The feature extractor processes the input frame sequence, RL×H×W ×3 with H × W denoting the spatial resolution, and produces per-frame feature representations, RL×d.
Fol- lowing Hong et al.
[20], we employ a compact 2D back- bone to ensure efficiency and to accommodate longer video sequences.
For comparability with previous PES methods, we choose RegNetY [29] as our feature extractor, known for its efficiency.
To incorporate local temporal information during the extractor, we utilize GSF [34], which overper- forms GSM [33] in action recognition tasks.
GSF modules are specifically applied to the latter half of the RegNetY backbone, enabling local spatial modelling before integrat- ing longer-term temporal context. 3.2.
Temporally discriminant encoder-decoder The temporally discriminant encoder-decoder processes the tokens produced by the feature extractor module, which contain mainly spatial information, with the objective of enriching them with essential temporal information – both local and global – to enable precise event predictions.
To accomplish this, it incorporates three key components: (1) an encoder-decoder architecture for exploiting information across diverse temporal scales, (2) SGP layers to increase discriminability among tokens within the same sequence, and (3) our novel SGP-Mixer layer, designed to effectively fuse features from varying temporal scales while maintain- ing the distinctiveness of its output tokens.
Encoder-decoder architecture.
Various works [31, 32, 43] have shown the benefits of processing features at different temporal scales in tasks related to action recognition.
This is because certain actions inherently require longer tempo- ral context for recognition and localization, while others can be identified with just a few frames.
SOTA models in TAL achieve this by employing a feature pyramid, where the temporal dimension is downscaled by a factor of k in the final layers through max-pooling, and predictions are made for each output feature at various temporal scales.
How- ever, in PES, where precision is crucial, this is detrimen- tal.
As shown in Section 4.5, the further down we go in the feature pyramid, the more deminishes the precision of the output predictions, inevitabely impacting model perfor- mance.
To address this issue while still leveraging different temporal scales, we propose an encoder-decoder architec- ture.
After temporal downscaling during the encoder, akin to the feature pyramid, we restore the original temporal res- olution through the decoder, thereby regaining frame-level granularity for the representations.
We do this by incorpo- rating skip connections from the encoder to the decoder’s upsampling.
Specifically, the encoder begins by complementing the tokens with a learnable encoding that specifies its temporal position.
Furthermore, it comprises B encoder blocks, each consisting of an SGP layer to enhance discriminability while capturing temporal context, and a max-pooling operation to reduce the temporal dimension by a factor of k.
An additional SGP layer is applied in the neck of the encoder-decoder, before passing the features to the decoder.
In the decoder, the original temporal resolution is restored through B decoder blocks.
Each of these blocks incorporates an SGP-Mixer layer, which extends the SGP layer to increase the temporal dimension by a factor of k while integrating information coming from the skip connections.
SGP layer.
The SGP layer, as introduced by Shi et al.
[31], addresses the rank-loss problem [12] commonly encoun- tered in Transformers [35], thus improving token discrim- inability within sequences.
As depicted in the top of Fig- ure 3, it replaces the self-attention module in the Trans- former layer with an SGP module illustrated at the bottom of the figure.
This module comprises two primary branches: an instant-level branch and a window-level branch.
The instant-level branch aims to boost token discriminability by increasing its distance from the clip-level average to- ken, while the window-level branch captures temporal in- formation from multiple receptive fields.
Furthermore, the SGP layer substitutes one of the layer normalization mod- ules with group normalization.
Given its advantageous characteristics, which con- tributed to Tridet’s SOTA results in TAL, we believe it can be even more beneficial in PES, where precise frame-level predictions are crucial and can benefit from improved discriminability between concurrent tokens, as discussed in Section 4.5.
SGP-Mixer layer.
As shown in the top of Figure 4, the SGP-Mixer layer extends the original SGP layer to accom- modate two inputs with distinct temporal scales.
This adap- tation becomes necessary in our architecture due to the re- ception of an input feature z ∈RL/kj×d from the preceding layer, and features x ∈RL/k(j−1)×d from the skip connec- tion, where j ∈{1, . . . , B} denotes the depth within the de- coder blocks.
Both features undergo layer normalization be- fore entering the SGP-Mixer module, where a combination of both features is generated.
Finally, the output features are further processed through identical components within an SGP layer.
The fusion of both features is done in the SGP-Mixer module, shown at the bottom of the Figure 4.
First, it up- samples the features from the previous layer to match the temporal dimensions (RL/kj →RL/k(j−1)) using linear in- terpolation.
Following the principles of the SGP layer, it has two instant-level branches – one for each input feature – to improve token discriminability.
This is particularly im-

[page 5]
Figure 3.
Illustration of the SGP layer structure, with its module comprising an instant-level branch to boost token discriminability and a window-level branch for temporal modeling. portant for the features in the previous layer, since upsam- pling may produce similar tokens in adjacent temporal po- sitions.
In addition, it includes two window-level branches to aggregate information from both features while captur- ing different temporal contexts.
In each branch, one feature evolves to mix information across different temporal recep- tive fields, which is later gated by the other feature.
Short- cuts are also introduced, but, unlike SGP, feature aggrega- tion from different branches involves concatenation and lin- ear projection, which we find more effective than simple addition, as will be shown later in Section 4.5. 3.3.
Prediction head Following common AS approaches [11, 32, 36], we include a prediction head consisting of a classification head and a displacement head.
The classification head uses a lin- ear layer and a softmax activation to project the output of the temporally discriminant encoder-decoder, RL×d, onto ˆyc ∈RL×(C+1), representing the probability of each tem- poral position containing each of the events or a background class.
Similarly, the displacement head uses a linear layer to project the same output to ˆyd ∈RL×1, representing the dis- placement toward the ground truth event if an actual event is present at the corresponding temporal position. 3.4.
Training details The model is trained using a combination of a classifica- tion loss (Lc) and a displacement loss (Ld).
For classifi- cation, per-frame cross-entropy loss is employed weighting the positive classes by a factor of w for all events.
Mean squared error is used for displacement.
The final loss (L) for a given clip is the sum of both losses: Figure 4.
Illustration of the SGP-Mixer layer structure integrating an SGP-Mixer module to aggregate features of different tempo- ral scales.
This module follows the SGP principles, incorporating instant-level and window-level branches to boost token discrim- inability while merging the features.
L = Lc+Ld = 1 L L X l=1 CEw(yc l , ˆyc l )+MSE(yd l , ˆyd l ), (1) where yc l represents the one-hot encoding of the event in frame l, ˆyc l denotes the classification probabilities at that frame, yd l indicates the actual displacement to a ground- truth event (if an event is within the detection radius rE), and ˆyd l represents the predicted displacement.
During training, we perform typical data augmentation techniques such as random cropping, random horizontal flip, gaussian blur, color jitter, and mixup [44]. 3.5.
Inference At inference time, the data augmentation techniques are dis- abled and we use clips with 50% of overlapping.
More- over, to reduce the number of candidate events, Soft Non- Maximum Suppression [2] is applied.

[page 6]
Table 1.
Comparison with SOTA methods on FigureSkating (FS-Comp and FS-Perf splits) and FineDiving datasets, highlighting the best results in bold and the second-top performance with underlining.
For each model, we report feature extractor sizes in MegaFlops (MF) and input modalities including RGB images and Optical Flow (OF).
FS-Comp FS-Perf FineDiving Model Size Input δ = 1 E2E-Spot [20] 200MF RGB 81.00 93.50 85.10 95.70 68.40 85.30 E2E-Spot [20] 800MF RGB 84.00 - 83.60 - 64.60 - E2E-Spot [20] 800MF RGB + OF [21] 83.40 94.90 83.30 96.00 66.40 84.80 T-DEED 200MF RGB 85.15 91.70 86.79 96.05 71.48 87.62 T-DEED 800MF RGB 84.77 92.86 88.17 95.87 73.23 88.88 4.
Results In this section, we detail the evaluation setup for our pro- posed method and present experimental results demonstrat- ing its superiority over current SOTA methods in PES on the application domain of sports data.
Additionally, we conduct ablations on key components of our proposal. 4.1.
Datasets We conduct experiments on two challenging datasets: Fig- ureSkating [19] and FineDiving [38].
FigureSkating com- prises 11 videos featuring 371 short-program performances from Winter Olympics and World Championships, anno- tated with 4 event classes.
Annotations cover 0.23% of the frames.
Evaluation is performed on two different splits: FS- Comp and FS-Perf, as detailed in Hong et al.
[20].
Fine- Diving [38] consists of 3000 diving clips annotated with 4 different event classes, covering 2.2% of the frames.
Both datasets’ videos have a frame rate between 25 and 30 frames per second. 4.2.
Evaluation Following standard practices, we train on the train split, use the validation split for early stopping, and evaluate on the test split for all datasets.
Model performance is assessed us- ing the mAP metric, which calculates the mean of Average Precisions across different events.
We employ a tight ver- sion of the metric with a tolerance of δ = 1 frame and a loose metric with δ = 2 frames. 4.3.
Implementation details We train T-DEED using clips of L = 100 frames with a batch size of 8 clips.
Each epoch comprises 5000 clips, randomly sampled from the training videos.
Models are trained for 50 epochs using AdamW optimizer [26], with a base learning rate of 8e-04, with 3 linear warmup epochs, and cosine decay.
Positive classes in the cross-entropy loss are weighted with w = 5.
We evaluate two versions of our feature extractor, denoted as RegNetY-200MF and RegNetY-800MF with hidden dimensions set to d = 368 and d = 768, respectively, and a downscaling factor of k = 2.
Additional dataset-sensitive model hyperparameters are outlined in the supplementary material. 4.4.
Comparison to SOTA In Table 1, we compare our proposed T-DEED in two vari- ations, with smaller and larger feature extractors, against previous SOTA models across four different configurations and datasets.
We present mAP scores with δ = 1 and δ = 2.
For the Figure Skating dataset, in both FS-Comp and FS-Perf configurations, our models exhibit improvements on the tight metric, with gains of up to +1.15 and +3.07, respectively.
However, performance on the loose metric, with a 2-frame tolerance, is comparable for FS-Comp and slightly worse in FS-Perf.
We attribute this to the use of di- lation in the E2E-Spot model for the FigureSkating dataset, which may be beneficial when using larger tolerances.
Ad- ditionally, in the FineDiving dataset, T-DEED clearly out- performs the SOTA on both metrics, with improvements of up to +4.87 on the tight metric and +3.58 on the loose met- ric. 4.5.
Ablations In this section, we incrementally ablate the different compo- nents of our approach.
We start with a base model consist- ing of the feature extractor without GSF, producing features with only spatial information, and plain layers of the dif- ferent temporal approaches.
Initially, we consider only the classification head (i.e., L = Lc), resulting in per-frame classifications.
For each approach, we evaluate multiple configurations with different hyperparameters (e.g., number of layers) and present results with the best configuration, reporting the mAP with a tolerance of δ = 1.
Each exper- iment is trained with two different seeds and we report the average for robustness.
Ablations are conducted using two datasets: FineDiving and FigureSkating on the FS-Comp split.
Enhancing token discriminability.
As previously dis- cussed, tasks like PES require tokens with sufficient dis- criminability to prevent precision loss in predictions due to similar representations for spatially similar adjacent frames.

[page 7]
Table 2.
Ablation of T-DEED’s main components using mAP with δ = 1, highlighting the best results in bold.
FS-Comp FineDiving Experiments mAP (δ = 1) mAP (δ = 1) (a) Temporal module Transformer 69.68 59.84 GRU 72.04 59.09 SGP 73.14 60.07 (b) Skip connection w/o 74.29 63.01 sum 73.27 60.14 concat 76.78 61.90 SGP-Mixer (sum) 76.88 61.34 SGP-Mixer 77.96 63.67 Here, we evaluate the discriminability of three commonly used layers for modeling temporal information: Trans- former [35], GRU [7], and SGP [31].
We measure the dis- criminability of their output tokens by averaging the cosine similarity between each token and the mean token of the sequence, as described in Shi et al.
[31].
Figure 5 illustrates the rank-loss problem in Transform- ers, where token similarity increases across layers, therefore losing discriminability.
In contrast, GRU layers, typically requiring fewer layers, show slight improvement in simi- larity.
However, SGP layers exhibit the lowest similarity (i.e., highest discriminability) among output tokens, demon- strating its effectiveness in enhancing token discriminabil- ity.
Additionally, this enhanced discriminability leads to the best performance among the different temporal modules, as shown in Table 2a.
This observation highlights the advan- tages of employing the SGP layer, particularly in precision- demanding tasks like PES.
Defining multiple temporal scales.
Employing multiple temporal scales while processing videos has proven effec- tive across various TAL and AS methodologies [31, 32, 43].
Here, we evaluate our encoder-decoder architecture, operat- ing on multiple temporal scales, using diverse mixture ap- proaches in skip connections.
Specifically, we assess five variations: (1) no skip connections, (2) addition, (3) con- catenation and linear projection, (4) a modified SGP-Mixer aggregating branches information with summation, and (5) our proposed SGP-Mixer layer.
Further details of each ap- proach can be found in the supplementary material.
Results of these approaches are presented in Table 2b, where we observe that all encoder-decoder-based ap- proaches, with or without skip connections, outperform the baseline using a single scale.
This underscores the im- portance of capturing information from multiple temporal scales, effectively achieved in our encoder-decoder.
How- ever, further analysis reveals issues with approaches uti- (a) FS-Comp discriminability analysis.
(b) FineDiving discriminability analysis.
Figure 5.
Temporal module discriminability analysis.
Cosine similarity after backbone (BB), post-positional encoding (PE), and at each temporal layer is displayed.
Additionally, mAP perfor- mance with δ = 1 is reported. lizing addition for feature aggregation within skip connec- tions, as they tend to yield inferior results compared to alter- native methods.
We hypothesize that this problem may be due to the attribution of equal weight to features from skip connections and previous layers when adding them.
This could be particularly critical in the top layers of the architec- ture, where information passed from skip connections may be too primitive.
Finally, our proposed SGP-Mixer layer stands as the best approach for both datasets in aggregating information within the skip connections.
This emphasizes the advantages of our carefully designed SGP-Mixer layer in aggregating information across multiple temporal scales while enhancing token discriminability.
Introducing the displacement head.
In Table 3a we eval- uate various methods for addressing the imbalance between frames containing actual events and background frames in PES.
These methods include label dilation, which aims to detect events within a radius around the ground truth but may impact prediction precision, and the utilization of a dis- placement head, as detailed in Section 3.3.
Results indicate that the prediction head offers more benefits compared to label dilation, enabling wider range of event detection with- out sacrificing prediction precision.

[page 8]
Table 3.
Further ablations and analysis of T-DEED using mAP with δ = 1.
FS-Comp FineDiving Experiments mAP (δ = 1) mAP (δ = 1) (a) Displacement head w/o & dilation = 0 74.74 63.67 w/o & dilation = 1 77.96 61.97 rE = 1 78.20 67.49 rE = 2 77.12 68.31 (b) Feature pyramids Tridet 68.31 64.28 (c) Feature extractor w/ gsm 81.00 67.95 w/ gsm (half) 81.05 67.47 w/ gsf 80.43 67.87 w/ gsf (half) 81.25 68.40 (d) Clip length L = 25 frames 71.02 66.61 L = 50 frames 76.87 64.84 L = 100 frames 81.25 68.40 L = 200 frames 79.19 65.29 (e) Postprocessing NMS [27] 81.27 68.40 SNMS [2] 85.15 71.48 Feature pyramids.
A common approach in TAL to pro- cess multiple temporal scales is the use of feature pyramids, which resembles using only the encoder of our approach.
In Table 3b, we explore adapting the SGP Feature Pyramid proposed in Shi et al.
[31] to our task.
This method gen- erates predictions at each temporal scale and integrates a displacement head to locate them.
However, we observe a performance decrease compared to our encoder-decoder ar- chitecture.
Further analysis of the predictions produced at each layer of the pyramid, depicted in Figure 6, reveals a de- crease in performance as we descend the pyramid towards more high-level but lower-resolution features.
This sug- gests that generating predictions at lower resolutions might compromise the accuracy.
Our encoder-decoder architec- ture is able to model high-level information while recov- ering the original temporal resolution, thus avoiding losing the temporal precision that is critical in PES.
Feature extractor ablations.
In Table 3c, we explore the impact of integrating different temporal shift modules into our 2D backbone to capture local temporal context.
Specif- ically, we consider two modules, GSM [33] and GSF [34], known for their effectiveness in action recognition tasks.
We assess two variants: one applying these modules across all backbone layers, and another limited to the latter half to promote stronger spatial modeling before temporal inte- Figure 6.
Per-layer mAP analysis using the Feature Pyramid Net- work. mAP is reported at each layer of the SGP feature pyramid, accumulating predictions from previous layers, for the FineDiving and FigureSkating datasets. gration.
Following [20], we apply these modules to 1 4 of the channels of the residual blocks.
Results indicate that incorporating local temporal modeling into the backbone is especially useful in the FigureSkating dataset, while Fine- Diving shows comparable results to those without tempo- ral modules.
Notably, GSF applied to the latter half of the backbone yields the best performance for both datasets.
Clip length analysis.
Regarding optimal clip length, Ta- ble 3d evaluates various number of frames.
In FigureSkat- ing, performance improves with increasing clip length, plateauing at 100 frames.
Similarly, results for FineDiving also indicate 100 frames as the optimal choice.
Postprocessing analysis.
In Table 3e, we illustrate the impact of employing two postprocessing techniques: Non-Maximum Suppression (NMS) [27] and Soft Non- Maximum Suppression (SNMS) [2].
The optimal results are achieved with a 1-frame window for NMS and a 3-frame window for SNMS.
Notably, SNMS consistently improves mAP for both datasets. 5.
Conclusion This work presented T-DEED, a model designed to address Precise Event Spotting across various sports datasets.
Ablation studies underscore the importance of processing videos in multiple temporal scales and enhancing token discriminability for precise predictions.
To address these challenges, we integrate an encoder-decoder architecture and propose the SGP-Mixer layer, aimed at aggregating information at various temporal scales within skip connec- tions while improving token discriminability.
Additionally, T-DEED achieves SOTA performance on the FigureSkating and FineDiving datasets.
Acknowledgements.
This work has been partially sup- ported by the Spanish project PID2022-136436NB-I00 and by ICREA under the ICREA Academia programme.

[page 9]
References [1] Sami Abu-El-Haija, Nisarg Kothari, Joonseok Lee, Paul Natsev, George Toderici, Balakrishnan Varadarajan, and Sudheendra Vijayanarasimhan.
Youtube-8m: A large- scale video classification benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.08675, 2016. 2 [2] Navaneeth Bodla, Bharat Singh, Rama Chellappa, and Larry S Davis.
Soft-nms–improving object detection with one line of code.
In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision, pages 5561–5569, 2017. 5, [3] Shyamal Buch, Victor Escorcia, Chuanqi Shen, Bernard Ghanem, and Juan Carlos Niebles.
Sst: Single-stream tem- poral action proposals.
In Proceedings of the IEEE con- ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 2911–2920, 2017. 2 [4] Shyamal Buch, Victor Escorcia, Bernard Ghanem, Li Fei- Fei, and Juan Carlos Niebles.
End-to-end, single-stream tem- poral action detection in untrimmed videos.
In Procedings of the British Machine Vision Conference 2017.
British Ma- chine Vision Association, 2019. 2 [5] Fabian Caba Heilbron, Victor Escorcia, Bernard Ghanem, and Juan Carlos Niebles.
Activitynet: A large-scale video benchmark for human activity understanding.
In Proceed- ings of the ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 961–970, 2015. 2 [6] Joao Carreira and Andrew Zisserman.
Quo vadis, action recognition? a new model and the kinetics dataset.
In pro- ceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 6299–6308, 2017. 2 [7] Junyoung Chung, Caglar Gulcehre, KyungHyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio.
Empirical evaluation of gated recurrent neural networks on sequence modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.3555, 2014. 2, 7 [8] Anthony Cioppa, Silvio Giancola, Vladimir Somers, Flo- riane Magera, Xin Zhou, Hassan Mkhallati, Adrien Deliege, Jan Held, Carlos Hinojosa, Amir M Mansourian, et al.
Soccernet 2023 challenges results. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.06006, 2023. 2 [9] Dima Damen, Hazel Doughty, Giovanni Maria Farinella, Sanja Fidler, Antonino Furnari, Evangelos Kazakos, Davide Moltisanti, Jonathan Munro, Toby Perrett, Will Price, et al.
Scaling egocentric vision: The epic-kitchens dataset.
In Proceedings of the European conference on computer vision (ECCV), pages 720–736, 2018. 2 [10] Adrien Deliege, Anthony Cioppa, Silvio Giancola, Meisam J Seikavandi, Jacob V Dueholm, Kamal Nasrollahi, Bernard Ghanem, Thomas B Moeslund, and Marc Van Droogen- broeck.
Soccernet-v2: A dataset and benchmarks for holistic understanding of broadcast soccer videos.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 4508–4519, 2021. 2 [11] Julien Denize, Mykola Liashuha, Jaonary Rabarisoa, Astrid Orcesi, and Romain H´erault.
Comedian: Self-supervised learning and knowledge distillation for action spotting using transformers.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Con- ference on Applications of Computer Vision, pages 530–540, 2024. 2, 3, 5 [12] Yihe Dong, Jean-Baptiste Cordonnier, and Andreas Loukas.
Attention is not all you need: Pure attention loses rank dou- bly exponentially with depth.
In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 2793–2803.
PMLR, 2021. 2, 4 [13] Victor Escorcia, Fabian Caba Heilbron, Juan Carlos Niebles, and Bernard Ghanem.
Daps: Deep action proposals for ac- tion understanding.
In Computer Vision–ECCV 2016: 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Octo- ber 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part III 14, pages 768–784.
Springer, 2016. 2 [14] Silvio Giancola, Mohieddine Amine, Tarek Dghaily, and Bernard Ghanem.
Soccernet: A scalable dataset for action spotting in soccer videos.
In Proceedings of the IEEE confer- ence on computer vision and pattern recognition workshops, pages 1711–1721, 2018. 2 [15] Silvio Giancola, Anthony Cioppa, Adrien Deli`ege, Floriane Magera, Vladimir Somers, Le Kang, Xin Zhou, Olivier Bar- nich, Christophe De Vleeschouwer, Alexandre Alahi, et al.
Soccernet 2022 challenges results.
In Proceedings of the 5th International ACM Workshop on Multimedia Content Anal- ysis in Sports, pages 75–86, 2022. 2 [16] Raghav Goyal, Samira Ebrahimi Kahou, Vincent Michal- ski, Joanna Materzynska, Susanne Westphal, Heuna Kim, Valentin Haenel, Ingo Fruend, Peter Yianilos, Moritz Mueller-Freitag, et al.
The” something something” video database for learning and evaluating visual common sense.
In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on com- puter vision, pages 5842–5850, 2017. 2 [17] Fabian Caba Heilbron, Juan Carlos Niebles, and Bernard Ghanem.
Fast temporal activity proposals for efficient de- tection of human actions in untrimmed videos.
In Proceed- ings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 1914–1923, 2016. 2 [18] Samitha Herath, Mehrtash Harandi, and Fatih Porikli.
Going deeper into action recognition: A survey.
Image and vision computing, 60:4–21, 2017. 1 [19] James Hong, Matthew Fisher, Micha¨el Gharbi, and Kayvon Fatahalian.
Video pose distillation for few-shot, fine-grained sports action recognition.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 9254– 9263, 2021. 1, 2, 3, 6 [20] James Hong, Haotian Zhang, Micha¨el Gharbi, Matthew Fisher, and Kayvon Fatahalian.
Spotting temporally precise, fine-grained events in video.
In European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 33–51.
Springer, 2022. 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, [21] Berthold KP Horn and Brian G Schunck.
Determining opti- cal flow.
Artificial intelligence, 17(1-3):185–203, 1981. 6 [22] Haroon Idrees, Amir R Zamir, Yu-Gang Jiang, Alex Gorban, Ivan Laptev, Rahul Sukthankar, and Mubarak Shah.
The thumos challenge on action recognition for videos “in the wild”.
Computer Vision and Image Understanding, 155:1– 23, 2017. 2 [23] Chuming Lin, Chengming Xu, Donghao Luo, Yabiao Wang, Ying Tai, Chengjie Wang, Jilin Li, Feiyue Huang, and Yan-

[page 10]
wei Fu.
Learning salient boundary feature for anchor- free temporal action localization.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 3320–3329, 2021. 2 [24] Tianwei Lin, Xu Zhao, and Zheng Shou.
Single shot tempo- ral action detection.
In Proceedings of the 25th ACM inter- national conference on Multimedia, pages 988–996, 2017.
[25] Xiaolong Liu, Qimeng Wang, Yao Hu, Xu Tang, Shiwei Zhang, Song Bai, and Xiang Bai.
End-to-end temporal ac- tion detection with transformer.
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 31:5427–5441, 2022. 2 [26] Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter.
Decoupled weight decay regularization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.05101, 2017. 6 [27] Alexander Neubeck and Luc Van Gool.
Efficient non- maximum suppression.
In 18th international conference on pattern recognition (ICPR’06), pages 850–855.
IEEE, 2006.
[28] Zhiwu Qing, Haisheng Su, Weihao Gan, Dongliang Wang, Wei Wu, Xiang Wang, Yu Qiao, Junjie Yan, Changxin Gao, and Nong Sang.
Temporal context aggregation network for temporal action proposal refinement.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 485–494, 2021. 2 [29] Ilija Radosavovic, Raj Prateek Kosaraju, Ross Girshick, Kaiming He, and Piotr Doll´ar.
Designing network design spaces.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on com- puter vision and pattern recognition, pages 10428–10436, 2020. 4 [30] Dian Shao, Yue Zhao, Bo Dai, and Dahua Lin.
Finegym: A hierarchical video dataset for fine-grained action under- standing.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 2616–2625, 2020. 2, 3 [31] Dingfeng Shi, Yujie Zhong, Qiong Cao, Lin Ma, Jia Li, and Dacheng Tao.
Tridet: Temporal action detection with relative boundary modeling.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Con- ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 18857–18866, 2023. 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 [32] Joao VB Soares, Avijit Shah, and Topojoy Biswas.
Tem- porally precise action spotting in soccer videos using dense detection anchors.
In 2022 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP), pages 2796–2800.
IEEE, 2022. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 [33] Swathikiran Sudhakaran, Sergio Escalera, and Oswald Lanz.
Gate-shift networks for video action recognition.
In Pro- ceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 1102–1111, 2020. 2, 4, 8 [34] Swathikiran Sudhakaran, Sergio Escalera, and Oswald Lanz.
Gate-shift-fuse for video action recognition.
IEEE Transac- tions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 2023. 3, 4, 8 [35] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszko- reit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin.
Attention is all you need.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 30, 2017. 4, 7 [36] Artur Xarles, Sergio Escalera, Thomas B Moeslund, and Al- bert Clap´es.
Astra: An action spotting transformer for soccer videos.
In Proceedings of the 6th International Workshop on Multimedia Content Analysis in Sports, pages 93–102, 2023. 2, 3, 5 [37] Huifen Xia and Yongzhao Zhan.
A survey on temporal action localization.
IEEE Access, 8:70477–70487, 2020. 1 [38] Jinglin Xu, Yongming Rao, Xumin Yu, Guangyi Chen, Jie Zhou, and Jiwen Lu.
Finediving: A fine-grained dataset for procedure-aware action quality assessment.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pat- tern Recognition, pages 2949–2958, 2022. 1, 2, 3, 6 [39] Mengmeng Xu, Chen Zhao, David S Rojas, Ali Thabet, and Bernard Ghanem.
G-tad: Sub-graph localization for tempo- ral action detection.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF con- ference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 10156–10165, 2020. 2 [40] Le Yang, Houwen Peng, Dingwen Zhang, Jianlong Fu, and Junwei Han.
Revisiting anchor mechanisms for temporal ac- tion localization.
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 29:8535–8548, 2020. 2 [41] Le Yang, Junwei Han, Tao Zhao, Nian Liu, and Dingwen Zhang.
Structured attention composition for temporal action localization.
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 2022.
[42] Serena Yeung, Olga Russakovsky, Ning Jin, Mykhaylo An- driluka, Greg Mori, and Li Fei-Fei.
Every moment counts: Dense detailed labeling of actions in complex videos.
Inter- national Journal of Computer Vision, 126:375–389, 2018. 2 [43] Chen-Lin Zhang, Jianxin Wu, and Yin Li.
Actionformer: Lo- calizing moments of actions with transformers.
In European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 492–510.
Springer, 2022. 2, 3, 4, 7 [44] Hongyi Zhang, Moustapha Cisse, Yann N Dauphin, and David Lopez-Paz. mixup: Beyond empirical risk minimiza- tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.09412, 2017. 5 [45] Haotian Zhang, Cristobal Sciutto, Maneesh Agrawala, and Kayvon Fatahalian.
Vid2player: Controllable video sprites that behave and appear like professional tennis players.
ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 40(3):1–16, 2021. 2, 3 [46] Hang Zhao, Antonio Torralba, Lorenzo Torresani, and Zhicheng Yan.
Hacs: Human action clips and segments dataset for recognition and temporal localization.
In Pro- ceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 8668–8678, 2019. 2

[page 11]
T-DEED: Temporal-Discriminability Enhancer Encoder-Decoder for Precise Event Spotting in Sports Videos Supplementary Material A.
Implementation Details for T-DEED Here we outline the configuration used for each T-DEED model in the SOTA comparison from Table 1 in the main paper.
All models utilize data augmentations, including mixup with α = β = 0.2, color jitter with probability 0.25, and Gaussian blur with probability 0.25.
For FigureSkating, frames of size 398×224 are randomly cropped to 224×224, while for FineDiving and FineGym, frames are resized to 224 × 224.
The detection radius rE is set to 2 frames for FineDiving, and 1 frame for FigureSkating.
Additionally, we weight the positive classes with w = 5 within the cross- entropy loss.
Among model-specific hyperparameters, we have the number of blocks (B), the kernel size (ks), and the scal- able factor within the SGP module (r).
These are chosen independently for FineDiving, FS-Comp, and FS-Perf: • FineDiving (T-DEED w/ 200MF): B = 2, ks = 7, r = 4. • FineDiving (T-DEED w/ 800MF): B = 2, ks = 9, r = 4. • FS-Comps(T-DEED w/ 200MF): B = 3, ks = 5, r = 2. • FS-Comp (T-DEED w/ 800MF): B = 2, ks = 9, r = 4. • FS-Perf (T-DEED w/ 200MF): B = 3, ks = 9, r = 2. • FS-Perf (T-DEED w/ 800MF): B = 2, ks = 9, r = 4.
B.
Decoder blocks alternative approaches In Figure 7, we illustrate different approaches to the de- coder block design and the information aggregation within skip connections.
Figure 7a depicts the case without skip connections, where information from the previous layer un- dergoes linear interpolation and an SGP Layer processes it.
Figure 7b illustrates aggregation through addition, where upsampled features from the previous layer are added to skip connection features before further processing with an SGP Layer.
Similarly, Figure 7c shows concatenation- based aggregation, where concatenated features undergo linear projection before SGP Layer processing.
Finally, Fig- ure 7d showcases an approach akin to our SGP-Mixer layer but using addition instead of concatenation and linear pro- jection for feature aggregation.
(a) Decoder block without skip connections (b) Decoder block with addition on the skip connections.
(c) Decoder block with concatenation on the skip connections.
(d) Decoder block with SGP-Mixer merging branches information with addition.
Figure 7.
Decoder block alternative approaches.
